.TH MRVACOMMANDER 7 "April 2025" "MRVA Project" "System Overview"
.SH NAME
mrvacommander \- distributed CodeQL task queue and execution system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B server
.RI [ environment ]
.br
.B agent
.RI [ environment ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
mrvacommander coordinates analysis jobs over multiple worker nodes using queues, pluggable storage, and CodeQL execution. It consists of multiple interacting packages and entry points.

.SH STRUCTURE
.TP
.B cmd/server
Entry point. Loads configuration, initializes dependencies, runs queue subscriber with a dispatcher.
.TP
.B cmd/agent
Entry point. Loads configuration, runs a processing loop: receive job, execute query, save result, update state.

.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
.B config/mcc
Parses environment variables into structured configuration. Modules include:
.IR queue ,
.IR storage ,
.IR logger ,
.IR commander .

.SH SERVER SIDE MODULES
.TP
.B pkg/server
Initializes:
  queue backend
  QLDB store
  artifact store

Subscribes to queue and dispatches jobs to handler.
.TP
.B pkg/deploy
Deployment helpers: validate environment variables, bootstrap key services.

.SH AGENT SIDE MODULES
.TP
.B pkg/agent
Receives jobs, executes CodeQL queries, stores outputs, marks completion.
.TP
.B pkg/state
Tracks which jobs have been completed. Local file-backed.

.SH SHARED MODULES
.TP
.B pkg/common
Core types: Job, JobOutput, NameWithOwner, Query.
Includes MinIO wrappers, external API access, and job spec parsing.
.TP
.B pkg/codeql
Defines query structure and executes CodeQL against a database.
.TP
.B pkg/qldbstore
Provides read-only access to CodeQL databases via:
  - MinIO (S3)
  - HTTP (hepc)
  - Filesystem
.TP
.B pkg/artifactstore
Persists job results. Implementations:
  - MinIO
  - Memory
.TP
.B pkg/queue
Job queue interface. Implementations:
  - RabbitMQ
  - In-memory single-node
.TP
.B utils
Generic helpers:
  - HTTP download
  - tar.gz extraction

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codeql (1),
.BR rabbitmq-server (1),
.BR minio (1)
